## 1.0 Introduction

Welcome to Introduction for Health Data Analytics. In this first training task we will get familiarized with Python. Please if you haven't done so already download Anaconda from: https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual. Anaconda comes with a bunch of data science packages already installed which will make things a lot easier for us. 


First we we learn a little bit about coding in Python, although many of you will already have some experience with this, it won't hurt to refresh your memory! 

### Task 1: 

List all the Data Types of Python with examples.  

```
string = "Hello World"
integer = 35
floating point number = 2.5
complex number = 3j
list = [1, 'two', 3, "four"]
tuple = (1,2,3,4)
range = range(6)
dictionary = {"item" : "pencil", "cost" :"£1.00" }
set = {"pen", "pencil", "ruler"}
frozenset = frozenset({"pen", "pencil", "ruler"})
boolean = True

also binery types = bytes, bytearray, memoryview
```

### Task 2: 

Other useful ways of storing data are in List, Arrays and Tuples. Create one of each and assign them to the variables a, b and c respectively. 

```

```
a = [1,'two',3,4.0,5] #Ordered list of (can be different) data types, can be modified
list = a
print(list)

b = [1,2,3,4,5]    #Ordered list of the same data type, can be modified
array = b
print(array)

c = (1,2,3,4,5)     #Ordered list of the same data type, cannot be modified
tupule = c
print(tupule)
### Task 3: 

We are also interested in becoming good software developers so we will need to use conditional, loops. Write an statement where the summation of a variable x+1 will be calculated if the value of x is greater than 2. 

```
x = 2  # Can be changed to any number
if x > 2:
    x = x+1
```

Now incorporate a for loop to calculate the value of n(x+1) for n repetitions where n=3. Store each value of the for loop in an array named y.  

```
x = 3  # Can be changed to any number
n = 3
y = []
for i in range(1,(n+1)):
    if x > 2:
        e = i*(x+1)
        y.append(e)
print(y)
        
```

### Task 4: 

Finally we will have a look at creating functions. Functions allow us to compute processes much faster without having to repeat lines of code. Using your code from Task 3, create a function called 'my_cool_function', which takes in the value x and will compute the n(x+1) if x is greater than 2 and for n repetitions where values will be stored in an array named y. Your function will return y. 

```
x = 3 # Can be changed to any number
def my_cool_function(x):
    n = 3
    y = []
    for i in range(1,(n+1)):
        if x > 2:
            e = i*(x+1)
            y.append(e)
    print(y)
    
my_cool_function(x)
    
```

That is your first introductory python coding assignment completed! Hopefully you are now comfortable basic coding in Python!
